Welcome back everyone to an introduction to neural networks we've seen how a single perceptual behaves.
Now let's expand on this concept to get the idea of a neural network.
Let's see how to connect many perceptions together and then how to represent this mathematically.
So what does a multiple perceptions network actually look like.
Well essentially looks like this.
Here we can see that we have various layers of single perceptions connected to each other through their
inputs and outputs in this case we have an input layer all the way on the left which is purple.
We have two hidden layers and hidden layers are the layers that are in-between the input layer and all
the way on the right the output layer essentially hidden layers or layers that don't get to see the
outside.
That is all the way the inputs on the left or all the way the outputs on the right so input layers.
Those are real values from the data.
So they take in the actual data as their input.
Then you have hidden layers and those are the layers between the input and output layers.
And if you have three or more hidden layers that's considered a deep network and then an output layer
where you have some sort of final estimate of whatever the output that you're trying to estimate is.
So as you go forwards through more layers the level of abstraction increases.
Let's not discuss the activation function and a little more detail previously our activation function
was just a really simple function the output 0 or 1.
Remember we were just taking the sum of the inputs in that simple perception model and then had an activation
function that just had an output of either zero or one based off whether the number was positive or
negative.
And if we plot it out that looks like this.
We can say the output is either 0 or 1 on the y axis and then the x axis we see are marking at zero.
And if we have a negative value we output zero.
And if we have a positive value we output one and we did this by having the x axis be w x plus B that
is the weights times the inputs plus that bias.
And it's really common to just set that equal to Z.
So you can refer to Z instead of having to concentrate for it to w x plus B.
So whenever I say C I'm essentially referring to those weights times those inputs plus that bias so
unfortunately this is actually a pretty dramatic function since small changes aren't really reflected
so you can have kind of really small changes in Z.
For instance the change from zero point five and Z to zero point six doesn't really matter it's still
going to output one as long as this positive or the change that are really dramatic from negative 1
to negative 1000 doesn't really matter.
It's gonna be zero so it'd be nice if we could have a more dynamic function.
For example this red line here you can see here that our outputs now are no longer just 0 or 1.
We have a little more detail to it.
There's a little more nuance here.
So lucky for us this is actually the sigmoid function.
This red line function already exists and it's known as the sigmoid function and they said my function
is just f of x is equal to 1 over 1 plus e to the negative x and we could replace X here with Z.
So we have z is equal to w x plus B.
So we just take the whole thing that Z and plug it into the sigmoid function so we'd have f of z is
equal to one over one plus E to the negative z and that would be our sigmoid function for the activation
function so changing the activation function used can actually be really beneficial depending on what
the particular task we're trying to complete and we'll get into more detail on that later on when we
actually implement our own neural networks.
Let's discuss a few more activation functions that we're going to encounter throughout this course.
So we'll really common function that's used as an activation function besides the sigmoid function is
the hyperbolic tangent function or 10 H or Tench of Z where 0 members just w x plus B.
And that looks really similar to the sigmoid function except note that the output can then be from negative
1 to 1 unlike previously we had 0 to 1.
So if we look at the sigmoid function again that went from 0 to 1 and that was equal to 1 over 1 plus
eats a negative x or negative z whatever the input is and now for the Tench or hyperbolic tangent function
it goes from negative 1 to 1 but still has its sort of same behavior shape.
And if you're interested in how to express the hyperbolic tangent mathematically over here on the right
hand side are the actual equations for it.
Then there's also the rectified linear unit or R E L U and this is a really common activation function
but it's actually relatively simple and the way it works is the following method.
You basically passing your z value into this Max equation so you say Max of zero or Z.
So what does that actually mean.
Well the rectified linear unit that actual activation function works the following manner.
It says Based off your z value and 0 just return the maximum value.
And that actually means that if your value of Z is negative then the max between zero and any negative
number is always going to be zero.
So we can see here that is Z.
If it's negative the function always returns zero and then between Max zero comma Z.
If the Z is positive it's always going to return the value of Z.
So essentially you of just that Y is equal to Z here.
So on the right hand side.
That's why you get that sort of straight linear line.
So again relatively simple function.
But this is kind of considered at certain points in time State of the art.
So we're gonna definitely be seeing this activation function a lot throughout our lectures.
R E L U or rectified linear unit actually tends to have the best performance in many situations.
Now luckily for us the deep learning libraries were using specifically cares have all of these activation
functions built in so it's gonna be really easy for us to swap them in and out or use certain activation
functions in certain situations.
Often we'll use something like a soft Max at the very end of a layer in order to actually get some sort
of classification output either a zero or one.
So we're going to do now is move on to understanding had actually implement and build our own neural
network models with Caris now that we already understand the neural network theory.
Once we understand neural network theory and Caris we'll move on to a more advanced type of neural network
specifically designed for sequences called recurrent neural networks.
The first let's move onto cares.
I'll see you at the next lecture.